# Pre-class Work - Lesson 8.1

## 1. The python dictionary

A python dictionary is essentially a hash table.
1. How does it resolve collisions?

Python uses a technique known as _open addressing_ in order to avoid collisions. A snippet of the code used is:
```python
j = (5*j) + 1 + perturb;
perturb >>= PERTURB_SHIFT;
use j % 2**i as the next table index;
```
`perturb` is a _variable_ that gets the other bits of the hash code into play.

2. The python dictionary is initially allocated a small amount of memory, what happens when it runs out of memory?

The memory of a dictionary is never left to run out completely. Any time a new _key value_ pair is added, it checks if the resulting table will be 2/3 filled. If yes, it increases the size of the hash table. Normally it starts with a size 8, then 32, then 128, then 512, then 2048, ..., etc.

## 2. The other type of dictionary

Let’s use a python dictionary (hash table) as a literal dictionary. In the dictionary, let’s store all correctly spelled
words (there are only roughly 100,000 English words in common use).
1. How would we use this to find incorrectly spelled words in a long string of text?
2. How does the computational complexity of a dictionary (hash table) compare to using a sorted array of all
correctly spelled words?
3. How might you use a list of common mis-spellings to automatically correct a mis-spelled word?

## 3. Cuckoo hashing

For an introduction to cuckoo hashing please read the references given at the end of this question. Focusing on the
Cuckoo hashing variant that uses only a single hash table, answer the following questions:
1. How does search in a cuckoo hash table work?
2. What is the worst case complexity of search in a cuckoo hash table?
3. —[Optional] Implement the query function in python.
4. —[Optional] Implement the insert function in python.

## 4. References

* Cuckoo hashing. (2016, September 10). In Wikipedia, The Free Encyclopedia. Retrieved 16:34, October 5,
2016, from https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cuckoo_hashing&oldid=738697882

* Curtis Lassam (2016, September 10). Cube Drone - Cuckoo Hashing [Video file]. Retrieved from https:
//www.youtube.com/watch?v=HRzg0SzFLQQ